---
layout: post
title: Goals
---

In the last post I set myself a weekly exercise goal, which I was able to stick to (barring one wet day where I didn't manage 6,000 steps). In general I've found that setting myself a goal has been the best way of ensuring I get enough exercise.

I'd like to continue this practice by setting myself health and fitness goals of two different levels:

- Short term: lose a little weight and run a parkrun in 25 minutes.
- Long term: develop and maintain sustainable good habits in terms of diet and exercise.

Let me explain these by detailing exactly what steps I am going to take to achieve these goals.

## Short term

I have found that the best way to lose weight is calorie counting. It's not very exciting, but it's effective! I've just got back from holiday, and before the holiday I counted calories for three weeks and managed to lose a couple of pounds. I have a weekend away booked in 6 weeks, so my short term target is to lose 4lbs by then.

I have run 5km every weekend for the last couple of months. Starting from a pace of 5m45s per km, I've been reducing my target pace by 5 seconds per km every weekend since then. I'll keep going until I run a parkrun in 25 minutes!

## Long term

[This video by cardiologist Rohin Francis](https://youtu.be/Zebu0tFkJEk) led me to realise that one of the best things I can do for my long term health is to make exercise a regular part of my week. And so I'd like to continue my current exercise regime (if that isn't too fancy a word!) in the long term. To recap, this is:
- 6,000 steps every day
- three dedicated bits of exercise every week (e.g. football, running, workout, ...)

I'd like to add another target to this. [The NHS recommends that adults should aim to do 150 minutes of moderate exercise or 75 minutes of vigorous exercise per week](https://www.nhs.uk/live-well/exercise/), and Fitbit has the concept of ["active zone minutes"](https://help.fitbit.com/articles/en_US/Help_article/1379.htm) which I can use to track this. So each week I'll aim to do 150 active zone minutes of exercise. This is a helpful addition on top of the number of steps I do, because it's perfectly possible to do lots of steps in a day without raising your heart rate much.

## Conclusion

It's worth bearing in mind that these goals can change - in particular I'd like to set myself new short term goals every few months. Perhaps I'll document them here, perhaps I won't!